## This is where the title goes?

Hatsune Miku is a Vocaloid, a voicebank software used predominantly in music creation, developed by Crypton Future Media originally in 2007. She is characterized as a 16-year-old Japanese android schoolgirl who is iconic for her turquoise pigtails, often depicted with a leek. Miku is the Vocaloid most widely recognized in the mainstream, and though she may technically be nothing but a voice synthesizer branded with an anime girl image, she has a cult following as an international sensation, holding tours from Japan to Indonesia to California to Shanghai. In following Miku’s global spread, I will be looking at her fandom, her interaction with corporations with Western ties, and her live performances. Though I will be focusing on Miku considering she is the face of Vocaloid and the most popular internationally, it’s important to note that a large portion of avid Miku fans are often by extension fans of Vocaloid in general, so I refer to both the Miku fandom and Vocaloid community for the purpose of the essay despite Miku and Vocaloid not being synonymous. A unique and deliberate balance between consumer contribution and minimal corporation involvement is the reason Miku, along with her fellow Crypton Vocaloid, has both the local and global reach they do today.

Miku is a program by Crypton Future Media, but the credit to Miku’s fame is not particularly traced back to Crypton, nor can it be attributed to any real individual groups. Rather the entity of Hatsune Miku is a collaboration at its core. Her software, initial design, and base character lore were set by Crypton, but past that Miku is unlicensed. Instead, Miku is an instrument to create songs, project characters, and tell stories with – essentially a blank canvas for whoever wants to work with her and share their creativity through her. The only immediate purchase required for Miku is the software if someone wanted to use her for music creation. In fact, when Crypton holds Miku-centric events, “Crypton has to license every song performed at the concert along with fan-created artwork featured as merchandise or prominently displayed at events around each concert”(Poladian), putting full creative control on those who use her. Thus, with each new piece of Miku content and each new contributing creator, Miku’s presence, who she was, and what she does would grow. In essence, Miku’s success highlights what Mizuko Ito calls participatory media culture at its finest. 

Ito states how in participatory media cultures, “Fans not only consume professionally produced media, but also produce their own meanings and media products”(Ito 507). What’s interesting about Miku, along with other Vocaloid, is that the professionally produced media consumed by fans is actually the same media produced by fans, making it so the fans are responsible for both the consumption and production of all Miku content. This creates somewhat of a recursive cycle where creative Miku “fans” buy the software to create new content, resulting in new people becoming “fans” of Miku when finding the content, and some of those new “fans” make more Miku content, bringing us back to the beginning of the cycle. Because of the growing number of creatives who contributed to Miku-produced content, eventually “it had less to do with any particular style and more to do with Miku herself”(Poladian). While the creators of Miku content were credited and seen for their content, Miku had become a figure of her own. Rather than there being a static Miku, Miku was an entity that evolved alongside and wound herself in the creativity of those who enjoyed her, acting as a symbol for an ever-expanding creative culture more than anything. The direction Crypton took with Miku by focusing on the participatory media culture, the fan base, the amount of content, and the amount of recognition that came with Miku naturally is what allowed her community fanbase and cultural presence to grow, expand and evolve the same transnationally. 

    Thanks to the age of the internet, even if most Miku songs were produced in Japanese, this rise of Miku wasn’t restrained by that. 
When Miku was released in the late 2000s, anime culture was steadily growing around the world. Thus, Miku’s branding appealed to those in the anime subculture(Poladian). At the time, most Vocaloid content was posted to a popular Japanese streaming site known as Nico Nico, but because of the growing anime fanbase starved for anime content(Poladian), Vocaloid fans found a way to share it with other non-Japanese fans: YouTube. Fans would reupload their favorite songs to YouTube with captions in various languages, spreading their love of the content, creators, and of course Miku herself to more people who would otherwise be unable to access or understand, expanding Miku’s influence even further. The fans who would reupload and add subtitles to Vocaloid songs alongside open video-sharing sites such as YouTube were huge factors contributing to the accessibility of Vocaloid outside of Japanese audiences. Without their dedication and the platform to work with, corporations that later chose to use Miku in international audiences may very much not have seen the appeal.

International fans also experienced the same cycle as Japanese fans: becoming a fan, becoming a Miku content creator, and sharing Miku through their content. Though at the moment Japanese Vocaloid remains the most popular and with the most content, various Vocaloid voicebanks are equipped for other languages (for instance Miku has Japanese, Chinese, and English). Sometimes, Vocaloid with Japanese-only voicebanks would still be used to create songs in other languages such as GOODBYE ft. Hatsune Miku by VocaCircus, a popular English Vocaloid song. This way, international Vocaloid fans who were passionate enough to create found ways to adapt and reflect their own ideas, stories, experiences, and creativity through Miku and other Vocaloid in a similar way as the Japanese fans if they so desired, adding even more new perspectives and more variety to the content of what existed for Vocaloid.
Now that we see how the Vocaloid community self-solidified, how did an economy grow from it? The music industry already has piracy issues, and international content seems even more problematic due to how hard it is to purchase international media. The approach Vocaloid took toward anti-piracy was divided into two parts. “The first stage of this strategy is to build a personal relationship between the producers and the fans. [...] The second prong of Vocaloid’s anti-piracy plan is making the majority of its music free for download”(Le 8). Since a community and connection between producer and consumer is created by recognizing their shared appreciation of the content and the fact that most music is already free, consumers are instead incentivized to purchase tracks from their favorite producers as opposed to feeling obliged to. While purchasing music from one’s favorite artist is usually an act of support, being given the choice reduces that barrier of obligation, making the purchase feel more voluntary and pleasing. When pairing that with the notion that Vocaloid fans recognize producers as fellow Vocaloid fans, they wish to support producers both from a business standpoint and the standpoint of simply wanting to contribute to people they feel connected to through the community. The two of these keep Vocaloid fans in the community and make them continue to want to support both the producer and the Vocaloid themselves. Thanks to Miku’s fans, in particular, her content, popularity, and economy were thriving, and reliance on voluntary fan contribution was something that helped Miku grow in popularity in the overseas market as well.
Though the international fandom for Miku was, to an extent, separated from the Japanese fandom, not having full access to all the content those did in Japan due to barriers such as distance and lack of full understanding of the language, that didn’t completely remove them from the general community of Vocaloid and Miku fans. This is likely attributed to the internet and fan translators, as the internet made the distance feel much less imposing and still let international fans access Miku-related content. Fan translators subdued the language barrier and allowed those who couldn’t fully understand songs and what went on with the Japanese Vocaloid community to have much more of an understanding than they would otherwise. As such, these fans still felt a desire to support Miku and their favorite producers. Those who had access would purchase from their favorite content creators and those who didn’t could still consume content on the internet legally accessible for free, waiting and hoping for the day they would have the opportunity to properly show their support outside the view count and comment section. As Miku’s cult following grew, other corporations took notice of her and recognized potential collaborations with her as an opportunity for both parties to reach even wider audiences.
The success of the collaborations, however, varied. One of the first major successes of Miku’s introduction to the American market was straightforward: one of her most popular songs became accessible on the American iTunes’ Store, showing major success. “After Sony Music Direct Japan began selling the Japanese pop band supercell's single ‘The World Is Mine feat. Hatsune Miku’ on Apple iTunes' American store on Wednesday, the single rose onto the store's top 10 singles chart for world music”(Loo). It was a safe play with near-guaranteed success, as Sony Music was a Japanese conglomerate with branches in the American market and therefore knew how to interact with the American market’s business. This led to much more success than if supercell, an independent producer, attempted to navigate the unfamiliar market on their own. Miku had already had her own growing fanbase in the West due to the fans translating her content, and “The World Is Mine” was and continues to be one of Miku’s top hits. Though in the music sphere Miku’s introduction had gone smoothly, using Miku as product placement with Toyota had not. 
Toyota attempted to Westernize Miku in order to localize her, stylizing her to appear more “American” and replacing her iconic leek with a hot dog. This received backlash from the existing community of Miku fans, as alterations were made to what the Vocaloid community saw as key symbols of her character. It would be impossible to Americanize Miku without overwriting aspects of what makes her recognizable and what had become images the community agreed on that came to represent her and their bubble of content, whether it be her name (Hatsune Miku being clearly Japanese), her design (a Japanese schoolgirl with a leek), or her most notable songs (which were in Japanese). In comparison to Pokemon, which “tr[ied] hard to keep American children from thinking of Pokemon as being from Japan”(Iwabuchi 69), making Miku culturally odorless would disregard the community that appreciated her, Japanese culture and all, who helped with her initial transnational movement. Miku’s fandom pushes against the notion that things must either be culturally odorless or Westernized to effectively spread globally. Despite Toyota’s attempt at localizing Miku having been a failure, Sega found a tool that could promote Miku that a variety of people would be able to appreciate and find fascination in and be the greatest push to popularizing Miku worldwide: live concerts.
To reiterate, Miku is nothing but a program; a vocal synthesizer with a character design that when put together created a virtual idol. So how was a “virtual” idol supposed to perform “live”? SEGA and Crypton collaborated to devise holographic technology in order to allow the idol Hatsune Miku to perform live onstage for fans while retaining her iconic anime appearance and outfit. These live performances optimized the interest revolving around Miku by preserving what the community loved while intriguing new fans who may have no experience with Vocaloid. In these concerts, Miku was localized in the same manner most idols transnationally expanding would be. Similar to how K-POP groups are able to appeal to the Western audience by interacting with them in English while still singing their Korean songs, Miku acts similarly by interacting with the audience in their native language between songs, like speaking in English in the United States or Indonesian in Indonesia. These concerts also retained the importance of the community aspect, as SEGA would license popularized Miku songs as opposed to creating their own for the concerts. Thus, attending the concerts, like purchasing the music tracks, was another instance of fans feeling like they were celebrating and supporting fellow Miku fans and enjoying the celebration with other members of the community. 
The most ingenious aspect was the “‘holographic’ nature of these concerts, [as] Miku became known as a virtual popstar in the West, primarily due to the Western media reporting on the concerts with little prior knowledge of Vocaloids”(Le 8 qtd. Meyers),. This attracted the attention of people who were intrigued by the concept of a virtual popstar but hadn’t been in the demographic originally swept up in the original expansion of Miku. Though these concerts weren’t the rise of Miku’s popularity, they were a major marker towards bringing Miku to more general audiences worldwide. As Miku’s live concerts gained attention, other famous worldwide stars such as Lady Gaga collaborated with her, as she performed as Lady Gaga’s opening act in 2014 following the same core aspects of speaking the local language between sets, performing songs that were a large part of the community’s association with Miku, and using holographic technology. This connection to Lady Gaga pulled her into the limelight even further, giving her more connections to those who found her fascinating. It reached the point where she was so well recognized she was scheduled to perform at Coachella 2020, one of America’s biggest music festivals, as her own act.
In the end, Hatsune Miku’s popularity was rooted in a sense of community creation, whether it be local in Japan or throughout her global movement. Crypton’s decision to not license Miku and keep the world of Vocaloid open and welcoming, both on the side of production and on the side of consumption, allowed for a following and personal community for Miku to evolve naturally. With that natural evolution came international fans who, through the help of the internet, worked to expand that community further. Even when corporations and Crypton became involved, Miku’s continual growth rooted itself in how those corporations recognized how to embrace the connections Miku already had and the culture surrounding her. Finally, while Miku was internationally famous as a subculture, her live concerts garnered her attraction from the general global population while embracing the community Miku is the representative of.

 Trisha Nguyen Copywrite